# Predicting Uninhabitable Regions in the U.S. due to Extreme Heat

## Project Description

An increase in global temperatures due to climate change has resulted in increased frequency, duration, and intensity of heat waves in the United States, according to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. This extreme heat is exacerbated in urban areas due to the large amounts of pavement and roofs made of dark materials that absorb about 90 percent of the sun’s energy (Huber, 2017, pp. 1-2). The heat is also worsened in these areas due to a lack of tree coverage to contribute to coolness and shade, and production of waste heat from automobiles and factories. Extreme heat disproportionately affects low-income urban areas, which tend to also be areas with primarily communities of color. In a 2021 study on dimensions of thermal inequity, UC Davis researchers found that California’s poorest neighborhoods were 6 to 7 degrees hotter than the wealthiest neighborhoods “on both extreme heat days and average summer days” (Dialesandro, Brazil, Wheeler, & Abunnasr, 2021, p. 5).

Extreme heat can cause illness and death, especially among vulnerable populations who do not have as much access to self-protection strategies. For example, communities of elderly adults, young people, low-income people, people of color, and houseless people are particularly vulnerable. Extreme heat can and already have made certain places uninhabitable, causing communities to abandon them entirely and migrate. For these reasons, in my project, I hope to train a machine learning model on data of average temperatures of all the states in the country. Such data is publicly available provided by the National Centers for Environmental Information, and can be found here: https://www.ncei.noaa.gov/access/monitoring/climate-at-a-glance/statewide/mapping/110/tavg/202208/1/value. I plan to make predictions for the rising temperatures and ultimately what parts of the United States will become uninhabitable.
